---
title: Design Lab Internship
---

# Design Lab Internship

In addition to facilitating the Multidisciplinary Capstone Design course, the [Design Lab at RPI](https://designlab.rpi.edu) hires summer interns to work on projects that will support future Capstone teams.  During my Summer 2025 internship, my project was to prepare an ABB IRB 1600 robot in the Robotics and Automation Teaching and Learning Cell for future teams to use in their projects.

## Work Instructions

The first part of my project was to update the work instructions for setting up the robot to be relevant to the new controller that was installed recently.  The original work instructions were also wordy, unclear, and poorly formatted, making them unhelpful.  I spent the first several weeks of my internship rewriting these instructions to be more concise, adding pictures of the new teach pendant, and annotating them with arrows to make them easy to interpret.  While limited work hours prevented me from finishing the later chapters of these instructions, check out the updated setup, shutdown, and basic operating instructions linked here.

[ABB Robot Work Instructions](/design-lab/ABB-Robot-Instructions.pdf)

## Simulations

The second part of my project was creating Octopuz and ABB Robot Studio simulation environments for the robot cell.  These environments will provide a place for future Capstone teams to simulate their robotic operations in a roughly accurate cell, which increases the likelihood of success.  Creating these environments involved measuring the cell, modeling the cell in CAD, importing the CAD model into each simulation software, and creating a demonstration program to home the robot, perform a tool change, and perform a simple pick and place operation.  These environments are available for download below, although Octopuz is a paid subscription only.

- [Octopuz Simulation](/design-lab/Robot-Cell.oz)
- [Robot Studio Simulation](/design-lab/Robot-Cell.rsproj)
- [Robot Cell STEP File](/design-lab/complete-assy.stp)

## Electrical Schematics

The final part of my project involved creating electrical schematics in KiCAD for the robot's scalable I/O system.  These schematics document the wiring connections for a planned tool changer and gripper, which are to be actuated by pneumatic solenoid valves and provide feedback to the robot controller via digital inputs.  [The schematics](/design-lab/robot-io.pdf) document the connections between the scalable I/O modules, these devices, and the intermediate terminal blocks inside the controller.
